# Discovering Approximate Denial Constraints in Large Databases 

Denial Constraints (DCs) form a highly expressive integrity rule language that subsumes many used formalisms such as keys and functional dependencies, making them widely adopted in applications that require the manipulation of rich sets of data constraints. This expressiveness has motivated the development of numerous algorithms for automatically discovering DCs from data, with particular emphasis on the discovery of approximate DCs to improve robustness to erroneous data. However, existing DC discovery algorithms exhibit computational costs that are quadratic in the number of tuples and exponential in the number of attributes, and most cannot accommodate changes in the data. Moreover, they often produce thousands of uninformative DCs. These limitations make current DC discovery algorithms difficult to use effectively on very large and dynamic databases.
In this paper, we present LIMA, an approximate DC discovery algorithm that efficiently discovers DCs on very large and dynamic databases. LIMA uses statistical methods to infer properties of DCs from reduced samples, and introduces a novel discovery framework that exploits a more restrictive definition of DC validity to substantially reduce the cost of searching for valid DCs. We experimentally demonstrate that LIMA achieves significantly better scalability than current algorithms with respect to both rows and attributes, while also discovering higher-quality sets of DCs with precisions several orders of magnitude higher than the state of the art, both in static and in dynamic datasets.


